docs: add sc docs (#4183)
aws/copilot-cli: site/content/docs/developing/internal-traffic.en.md

# Internal Traffic

## Service Discovery

> 

Reviewer: Can we add an [`info` admonition here](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/admonitions/#supported-types) recommending folks that they should prefer using service connect which was added with Copilot v1.24. Service connect provides a more resilient and easier to use communication alternative that doesn't require users to modify their code.

Reviewer 2: and, iirc, Service Connect is free whereas Service Discovery isn't, right?

Author: > Can we add an [info admonition here](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/reference/admonitions/#supported-types) recommending folks that they should prefer using service connect which was added with Copilot v1.24.

But all the info's been mentioned in the doc 🤔 

> and, iirc, Service Connect is free whereas Service Discovery isn't, right?

I think both of them are "free", and both of them are subject to additional cost (sc could be even higher because of the additional cost caused by the envoy sidecar usage)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

`COPILOT_SERVICE_DISCOVERY_ENDPOINT` is a special environment variable that the Copilot CLI sets for you when it creates your service. It's of the format _{env name}.{app name}.local_ - so in this case in our _kudos_ app, when deployed in the _test_ environment, the request would be to `http://api.test.kudos.local/some-request`. Since our _api_ service is running on port 80, we're not specifying the port in the URL. However, if it was running on another port, say 8080, we'd need to include the port in the request, as well `http://api.test.kudos.local:8080/some-request`.

When our front-end makes this request, the endpoint `api.test.kudos.local` resolves to a private IP address and is routed privately within your VPC.

### Legacy Environments and Service Discovery

Prior to Copilot v1.9.0, the service discovery namespace used the format _{app name}.local_, without including the environment. This limitation made it impossible to deploy multiple environments in the same VPC. Any environments created with Copilot v1.9.0 and newer can share a VPC with any other environment.

> When your environments are upgraded, Copilot will honor the service discovery namespace that the environment was created with. That means that the endpoint your services are reachable at will not change. Any new environments created with Copilot v1.9.0 and above will use the _{env name}.{app name}.local_ format for service discovery, and can share VPCs with older environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When your environments are upgraded, Copilot will honor the service discovery namespace that the environment was created with. That means that the endpoints for your services will not change. Any new environments created with Copilot v1.9.0 and above will use the _{env name}.{app name}.local_ format for service discovery, and can share VPCs with older environments.
```

> ## Service Connect

Reviewer: Can we move the Service Connect section to the top? I think that should be our recommended approach first.

Reviewer: I wonder if we can add a nice badge here saying "added in copilot1.24" like how Go does: https://pkg.go.dev/os#MkdirTemp

> Similar to Service Discovery, ECS Service Connect provides a “one-click” experience to have your client services connect to their dependencies in a load-balanced and resilient fashion, simplifying the way of exposing those dependencies to their clients. With Service Connect, each service you create is given a private (in-VPC) alias by default, which is also configurable in your service manifests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ECS Service Connect enables your services to connect to their dependencies in a load-balanced and resilient fashion. With Service Connect, each service is given a private alias within the VPC accessible at `http://<your service name>` .
```

### How do I use Service Connect?

> Imagine we have the same app called `kudos` and two services: `api` and `front-end`, deployed in the same environment. In order to use Service Connect, both services' manifests need to have:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine we have the same `kudos` app with two services: `api` and `front-end`, deployed in the same environment. In order to use Service Connect, both services' manifests need to have:
```

```yaml
network:
  connect: true # Defaults to "false"
```

> After deploying both services, they should be able to talk to each other using the default Service Connect endpoint, which is the same as its service name. For example, `front-end` service can simply call `http://api`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deploying both services, they should be able to talk to each other using the default Service Connect endpoint, which is the same as its service name. For example, `front-end` service can simply call `http://api`.

```go
// Calling the "api" service from the "front-end" service.
resp, err := http.Get("http://api/")
```
```

> 
> However, if you are already using Service Discovery right now and want to avoid any code changes, you can configure [`network.connect.alias`](../manifest/lb-web-service.en.md#network-connect-alias) field so that the Service Connect uses the same alias as Service Discovery. And if **both** client and caller have Service Connect enabled, they'll connect via Service Connect instead of Service Discovery. For example, in the manifest of the `api` service we have

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Upgrading from Service Discovery
Prior to v1.24, Copilot enabled private service-to-service communication with [service discovery](#service-discovery). If you are already using Service Discover and want to avoid any code changes, you can configure [`network.connect.alias`](../manifest/lb-web-service.en.md#network-connect-alias) field so that the Service Connect uses the same alias as Service Discovery. And if **both** client and server have Service Connect enabled, they'll connect via Service Connect instead of Service Discovery. For example, in the manifest of the `api` service we have:
```

```yaml
network:
  connect:
    alias: ${COPILOT_SERVICE_NAME}.${COPILOT_ENVIRONMENT_NAME}.${COPILOT_APPLICATION_NAME}.local
```

> and `front-end` can keep using the same endpoint to make API calls via Service Connect instead of Service Discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `front-end` can keep using the same endpoint to make API calls via Service Connect instead of Service Discovery to leverage the benefits of load balancing and additional resiliency.
```

### Legacy Environments and Service Discovery

Prior to Copilot v1.9.0, the service discovery namespace used the format _{app name}.local_, without including the environment. This limitation made it impossible to deploy multiple environments in the same VPC. Any environments created with Copilot v1.9.0 and newer can share a VPC with any other environment.

When your environments are upgraded, Copilot will honor the service discovery namespace that the environment was created with. That means that the endpoint your services are reachable at will not change. Any new environments created with Copilot v1.9.0 and above will use the _{env name}.{app name}.local_ format for service discovery, and can share VPCs with older environments.

## Service Connect
Similar to Service Discovery, ECS Service Connect provides a “one-click” experience to have your client services connect to their dependencies in a load-balanced and resilient fashion, simplifying the way of exposing those dependencies to their clients. With Service Connect, each service you create is given a private (in-VPC) alias by default, which is also configurable in your service manifests.

### How do I use Service Connect?

> Imagine we have the same app called `kudos` and two services: `api` and `front-end`. And both of them are deployed to the same environment. In order to use Service Connect, both services need to have

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Imagine we have the same app called `kudos` and two services: `api` and `front-end`, deployed in the same environment. In order to use Service Connect, both services' manifests need to have:
```

```yaml
network:

>   connect: true # By default it is "false"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  connect: true # Defaults to "false"
```

```

> in their manifests. And after deploying both services, they should be able to talk to each other using the default Service Connect endpoint, which is the same as its service name. For example, `front-end` service can simply call `http://api`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After deploying both services, they should be able to talk to each other using the default Service Connect endpoint, which is the same as its service name. For example, `front-end` service can simply call `http://api`.
```

> However, if you are already using Service Discovery right now and uncomfortable for make any code changes. You can configure the `connect.alias` field so that the Service Connect uses the same endpoint as Service Discovery. And if **both** client and caller have Service Connect enabled, they'll be talking in Service Connect instead of Service Discovery. For example, in the manifest of the `api` service we have

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, if you are already using Service Discovery right now and want to avoid any code changes, you can configure [`network.connect.alias`](manifest doc link) so that Service Connect uses the same alias as Service Discovery. And if **both** client and caller have Service Connect enabled, they'll connect via Service Connect instead of Service Discovery. For example, in the manifest of the `api` service we have
```
